Shri Pandurang Maharaj

"Pandurang avatar ughad jagi Chidambar"

Shri Chidambar Mahaswamiji was very kind enough towards all living beings. Due to this he has great resspect in everyones heart. So every one think of worshipng Shri Chidambar Mahaswamiji with a nearest possible. This wish
of each one could not fulfilled. The number of such people was more which Shri Chidambar Mahaswamiji also knew 
very well.
Once Shri Chidambar Mahaswamiji was asked about this under the leadership of Shri Rajaram Maharaj and also requested to show some way to worship as they like irrespective of age, sex, religion, race, big or small or as if their family member. Shri Chidambar Mahaswamiji told that I will definatly fulfill your wishes with taking one more birth in incarnation of Shri Chidambar Mahaswamiji in the name of Shri Pandurang Maharaj but you have to wait for that.
According to this the second son of Shri Chidambar Mahaswamiji named Shri Diwakar Dixit has a son named Shri Anna Dixit  who was a great devotee of Lord Panduranga of Pandharpur along with Shri Chidambar Mahaswamiji.
One night they had a dream in which Lord Panduranga told them that from now onwords you need not come to Pandharpur I my self will come to you as a son of you. Then as per the blessings of Lord Panduranga they got a child
on shake 1795(1873 A D) at Bhalki near Bidar in Karnatak State. So the child was named as Panduranga.
Incarnation of Shri Chidambar Mahaswamiji itself  was Shri Pandurang Maharaj so  since child hood only Panduranga
use to do many mirracles, surprising things, wonders. At the age of 10-11he was well known as Pandurang Devaru ( in Kannada "devaru" means God ). Since that Shri Pandurang Maharaj use to behave as per wishes of the devotees only.
ie every thing he use to do as per instructions cum requests of the devotees. he use to live at any body, use to eat what ever the devotees offer to him, sleep as they say who ever they may be, also live all the time in the middle of the devotees. Shri Pandurang Maharaj fulfilled all the requests of each one who worship.
Shri Pandurang Maharaj had never done pooja, archana never gave any pravachana or speach. Never told any philosophy. He lived all the time to fulfill the wishes of disciples or devotees. Shri Pandurang Maharaj lived many days 
at the house of Shri Bapu Anna Murkumbi and Sau Laxmibai Murakumbi which is at shahapur area in Belgaum(Karnatak). Shri Bapu Anna and sau Laxmibai Murkumbi both were great disciples of the great saint Shri Rajaram Maharaj and Shri Chidambar Mahaswamiji.
After that with the permission of his father Shri Anna Dixit he lived with Murkumbhi family only with Shri Krishtappa Murkumbi and Shri Mahadeo Murkumbi.
Shri Saamb Maharaj (Sri Hanam Seth) use to fallow him 24 hours as a disciple. Some days Shri Pandurang Maharaj lived in the house of Shri Ginde at Saraf galli in Shahapur area of present Belgaum. Presently  sri Pandurang Ginde 
is writing a book about Shri Pandurang Maharaj in the service of the devotees.
Shri Pandurang maharaj left his body on Magha vadya panchami  ie ( in 1928 ). The body was given mantragni ie holy fire in front of the samadhi place of Shri Rajaram Maharaj.
Once Shri Chidambar Mahaswamiji was told to Shri Rajaram Maharaj that I will come to meet you on Magha vadya panchami and Shri Rajaram Maharaj was waiting. Shri Chidambar Mahaswamiji  in the name of Shri Pandurang Maharaj arrived on the day he told since then the samadhi of both are there at only.
"Das mhane chidambar sarva bhooti"
"pahin vibhooti sarva tyache"
